# Cyber Espionage and Global Influences

Data criminals are a frequent source of significant losses for organizations and individuals. Typically, the offensive systems are controlled by criminals overseas, frequently Russia. In addition, the largest losses are typically orchestrated from abroad with criminals who will not face prosecution. Finally, the largest losses faced by the United States relating to espionage with massive economic losses because of the acquisition of trade secrets and broader intellectual property. Frequently, people refer to cyber warfare; however, citizens and organizations have a significant probability of being attacked by criminals and nation states. As a doctoral student, your research might be of interest to foreign criminals or foreign governments; both have ongoing activities to extract knowledge and product capabilities.

You must also consider that technology can provide protective cover. A good example is the Chinese Quantum Experiments at Space Scale (QUESS) that can move information, assured that the information cannot be taken or copied. This provides an exceptional strategic advantage.  Review the brief video from CNBC, found in the Books and Resources for this Week. Over the course of your career, it is likely that you will encounter espionage issues that need attention or the results of espionage can destroy billions of dollars of economic value and other strategic benefits.

There are various issues that can harm individuals in business. Beyond the articles provided in the course, you can also find other information on the Internet. Examples can be found using keywords such as "patriotic hackers," "DuPont espionage," "SecOS downed spyplane," "Agent.btz," "spoofing GPS," "Turla APT," "skygrabber insurgents," and "digital pearl harbor." The objective of this paragraph is to ensure that you are fully aware of factual items that have happened over the last seven years. This is a small sample, all of it available to the public.

Your objective this week is to consider the breadth of international exposures, not only the issues introduced above, but also the issues related to integrating with clients and suppliers overseas, establishing overseas offices, or becoming reliant on overseas products. What should one do to protect your organization and yourself?

Review the resources listed in the Resources area to prepare for this week's assignment.
