# Innovation, Change, and Evolving Risks

You can find numerous sources in the scholarly literature within the NCU Library and on the Internet that provide relatively accurate projections of what you can anticipate for 2023. There has been a constant progression of predictions; and by and large, they have been useful in providing professionals and researchers a good insight regarding future items that are important. This does not imply that there were no surprises.

In 2018, you can be quite certain that there will be more than 20 billion Internet of Things (IoT) deployed by 2020. There will be ongoing breakthroughs in machine learning over the next five years. Robots will continue to acquire knowledge and emotions while increasing wages within the United States are likely to result in far more robots being visible. You can anticipate self-driving cars with increasing capabilities from 2018 onwards. You will continue to see closer virtual collaboration and teleworking. Big data will become a crucial portion of decision-making across most work and many personal areas. High-quality video will be a common item in all areas of life. The results of these and other things that you can discover will imply massive increases in data, data analytics, and a far greater reliance on data. All of the above highlights the increasing exposure to regular people and organizations and increasing rewards for cybercriminals and nation states.

This week maps a number of the certain influences that you can anticipate changing the cyber exposure of your selected organization. Ensure that the same organization will be suitable for your Signature Assignment next week.
