# Addressing an Organization's Needs

Synthesize and extend your learning from the previous seven weeks and add the additional learning provided for this week. You should provide a technically sound and business savvy cybersecurity strategy with key policy objectives to the board of your selected organization. In addition, extend your credibility through the use of the websites provided in previous weeks and two new websites and scholarly sources found in the NCU Library. Your learning for this week focuses on additional insights relating to the advanced assignment required for this week.

Strategy implies planning for the future including the probability of changes in resources, adversity, and opportunities. In the previous week, you examined anticipated changes that might influence cybersecurity. Your objective in preparing for the board is to create an integrated strategy that can prepare the organization for an optimal outcome over the next five years. You would continue to update the strategy every year. However, for now, your key objective is to synthesize the best strategy by targeting your strategy for an optimum outcome over the next five years. Your plan should also consider not only defenses but the resources and costs involved. You cannot spend without balancing the benefits derived from those expenses. Consider the inclusion of information assurance as a further key element in your response to the board.

In order to improve your potential success, include relevant searches in the ProQuest Dissertations and theses database as well as potential examples that you could find on the Internet.
