# ICCE 2019 - Keynote by Christopher Krebs, Director, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency

On _April 23rd, 2019_; [Krebs et al.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aVfcgNhHSDM) describes the shift of government thinking from preventing terrorism to concerns around national states.  Everyday there is a new innovation in how technology is [ab]used -- so enter the Cyber and Infrastructure Agency (CSIA), `the nations risk advisor`.  CSIA needs to understand the context of the current risks and then make blue teams more successful.

Russia, China, Iran, and extremists are showing all of the signs of evolving into real advisaries.  These actors are becoming more efficient and attacking the supply chains through trusted relationships.  Many of these relationships connect at massive aggregation hubs, and become high value targets.  

Analyst need to have daily sharing of indicators of compromise, and build security trusts and partnerships across the globe.  Information sharing is the minimum bar, and we need to move towards operationalizing protections.  Moving away from the sector centric position, towards focusing on the business technology not economical impact.  There are minimal differences between an energy company versus an educational company.  So there is a focus on risk management on _cross cutting concerns of national critical functions_.  These critical functions create a graph of elevation paths, such as taking over fuel transportation risks hospital generators.

## Weaponization of Technology Framework

- What is the thing
- What can it do
- Where does it go
- Who controls that process

## Election Security

For the 2018 election cycle, CSIA worked with hundreds of voting sectors but there are thousands.  The problems are not limited to national challenges, they also expand into global partners, so we need to monitor their capabilities as they train in smaller eastern european elections.

## GLobal Economy

China is a market full of partner and an adversary, which creates the need for balancing policy, risks and rewards.  Businesses that operate with China need to be causious of the risks and cognizant of having a target on their back.  

How do we share, and share in a practical area; should we share with third-party the status of our internal technology?  CSIA targets most work at the unclassified level, so that the derived research can be easily shared.  Its a challenging topic, and we need to continue iterating here.

Supply chains are difficult to manage, hardware can have vulnerabilities but they tend to be more in the software.  Things like Kasperski are the more concerning scenario, as its a low-level root kit that cannot easily gain insights.
