# Keynote: Hack to the Future - Troy Hunt (2019)

On _May 20, 2019 at NDC Conferences_; [Troy Hunt](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qCOefMiakps) reviews the progression of security, and how we haven't evolved very far.  

## Password Policies

The presentation begins with a look at passwords, and their original objective was to protect user data in labortory setting.  Over time, the level of sophistication decreased while the ease of access increased causing for more complex password requirements.  However, these password policies have been a hinderance more than anything, as people lack entropy and subvert them in predictable ways.

## Encryption

> Q: Encryption follows the laws of math, how do you expect to ban it?  A: The law of mathmatics are very commendable, but the only laws that apply in Austraila is the law of Australia (17:02)

Firefox: Our focus groups show, that most people believe the lock icon is a shopping bag (17:30).  People do not understand what this icon means, even many network professions lack a clear understanding.  For example LetsEncrypt.com will provide free certificates for any website, which means that nearly all modern phishing sites are "encrypted thus secure."  Further complicating the matter is URL spoofing issues, can be use homograms that are difficult for our brains to pickup without specific task focus.

Though having site identity does provide some benefits, because all certificates are public record and part of the `Certificate Transparency Logs`, and businesses like [Facebook Developer](https://developers.facebook.com/tools/ct/) mine these for likely bogus attacks.

## Hacking Electronic Vehicle (31:00)

Next there was a discussion around manipulating electronic vehicles through their Android apps.  The team connected the device to a proxy server which allows them to easily record all communication.  From these investigations the authentication key was equal to the cars VIN number.  This risk mitigation is impractical because the VIN is not a random number, but an encoding of where/where the car was produced and its sequence number.  Another challenge comes from the VIN being visible through the front window, making protection challenging.

## BlueTooth Lock (40:00)

Next an example was provided where a BlueTooth lock relies on a fingerprint to unlock the device, or a mobile app could interact with it as well.  However, the mobile app relies on the BlueTooth id as the password, which is the only public piece of data.

## TicTocTrack Software (47:30)

Finally, an example around a child tracking watch is provided.  The team found that the technology requires a valid login, but afterward assumes that the client is trustworthy and does not manipulate the app state.  After examining the app communication through proxy, they found that query strings and numeric filters were the only protection between accessing different user data.  With basic parameter manipulation the direct object manipulation through ODATA was possible, allowing for full impersonation of an arbitrary parent with their child.
