# The Five Most Dangerous New Attack Techniques and How to Counter Them (2019)

On _March 7th, 2019 at RSA Conference_; [Paller, A; Mahalik, H; Skoudis, E; Ullrich, J](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sibeN4U1fOg) talked about growing attack vectors across the industry.

## Domain Name System Mischief

The network relies on DNS for translation of system names to IP locations.  If an attacker can compromise the routing configuration, then they can create MiTM scenarios.  For instance, manipulating the mail route (MX record) causes all email to flow into unauthorized third party servers.  These scenarios require MFA to control access along with DnsSec and automation to continously validate those routes are using expected values.

Another challenge comes from Domain Fronting, where the attacker sets up Content Delivery Networks or other cloud based solutions, and then opens TLS connections for exfiltration of data or command and control.  When the CDN or cloud is the same public provider as the compromised network, it introduces a natural obfuscation because those are places that should are expected to communicate.  Specific providers are blocking these scenarios with solutions such as `Server Name Indentification` (SNI), which requires the CDN resource to be visible in the server name, however this protection will be removed with TLS 1.3 and its encryption of the the field.

## Targed Individual Attacks

There are signficiant amounts of personally information that we openly and willfully share with the internet.  Many home technologies also use poor defaults and a laisse-fair approach to information sharing, specifically because it improves the user experience and quality of their solutions.  For example, Android and iPhone transmit out location into the cloud, so that traffic maps and route prediction understand what we are likely to do and then make that more reliable.

However, as we become more lazy and forgo control, there is risk that our privacy becomes compromised.  Through a series of security checkups, end users are expected to audit their sharing and security settings, though this argument seems erroneous.  Users do not understand these concepts, nor do they foundationally understand _why they are at risk, they use an iPhone within a walled garden_.

## Monitoring DNS

Monitoring domain traffic reduces privacy, which is bad for home systems but good for enterprise networks.  When technology monitors this traffic it can expose malware on the network and also leave a fingerprint of what the user are doing.  One way to prevent this spying is through `Dns Over HTTP`, as a mechanism for fully encypting the address lookups similar to a _poor mans vpn_.

## Hardware Compromise for Persistence

There has been a lot of attention of the compromise of CPUs, as an elevation path to read arbitrary memory.  That is only scratching the surface of the system on a chip (SoC) revolution, where there are now dozens of subsystems implemented in firmware.  If an attacker can gain access to these components, then it gives them the ability to persist root kits across installation or flow into management networks.  These management networks tend to be less secure because they are under the false-assumption of being airgapped.

## Living off the Land

When an attacker can continue their exploration using the administrative tooling already present, then it makes them more sophisticated as there are fewer changes to detect.  For instance, the user can script against PowerShell and not need third-party tools that are detectable from anti-virus.
